[Music]
prepare to be impressed here are 12
little-known facts proving your body is
a marvelous mystery the human body is a
very complicated mechanism full of
unsolved conundrums however some of its
mind-blowing abilities are already known
so do you want to know the biggest
secrets your body keeps then keep
watching before you find out what your
body is truly capable of make sure you
hit subscribe and ring this notification
bell to never miss a thing on the bright
side of life number one your brain is
the largest flash drive in the world
even though it seems like your brain
turns to mush and can hardly memorize
anything every time you have an
important exam or work presentation it's
real abilities are way more impressive
than you think
your memory has enough capacity to store
two and a half million gigabytes of
information which is about 300 years of
video the peak of our memory development
occurs at 25 years old but it slowly
begins to decrease when we hit 50 oh man
however if you want to have access to
this remarkable brain power at any age
be sure to do a couple of memory
training exercises every day number two
your body can slow down its processes to
protect you from drowning another thing
our body can easily do is often call the
diving reflex basically when your brain
realizes that your body is immersed in
water it slows your heart rate to
redirect blood from your limbs to vital
organs to conserve oxygen and the deeper
you're diving or staying under the water
thus lower your heart rate becomes when
in trouble your body can step forward
and save your life
[Music]
number three your body is a brewery of
mucus production oh the not so pleasant
truth is that an adult body produces
about one and a half litres of snot a
day now you may not notice this because
we swallow most of it without paying too
much attention to it yep in addition to
that the human body produces 1 liter of
saliva 3 litres of stomach juice 3 and a
half litres of intestinal juice and 1
liter of bile that's a savory stew of
digestive soup boy you're a real juicy
little thing now aren't you literally
number 4 the length of all the blood
vessels inside your body is enough to
encircle earth two and a half times
around the equator yes you heard it
correctly if you took all the blood
vessels out of the average adult and
laid them out in a line
the average adult would be dead but his
line up of blood vessels would stretch
over 100,000 miles that's more than
enough to encircle earth two and a half
times yet our body doesn't stop there
did you know that our heart pumps about
5.7 million litres of blood during our
lifetime this volume of blood can easily
fill three Olympic sized swimming pools
hey anybody for a swim a bloody good
time number five men's breasts can
produce milk if you were wondering why
only ladies can lactate I have some
groundbreaking news for you men can do
this too the first mention of it goes
back to 1896 and is included in the
anomalies and curiosities of Medicine
catalogue but jumping back to the 21st
century
in 2002 the against France press a had a
report about a 38 year old man who
nursed his two daughters after his wife
died it's safe to say that all humans
regardless of gender
have milk glands and milk ducts men's
nipples can't produce milk not only
thanks to stimulation but also as a
result of a certain hormonal imbalance
that's often caused by severe stress no
okay
number six your teeth are as strong as a
shark's teeth if you were both impressed
and terrified by how powerful the
shark's teeth were in Jaws here's a
little secret for you your teeth can
totally compete with that a study
conducted by specialists from the
University of dice burg Essen in Germany
found that even though a shark's teeth
are way bigger and protected with
exceptionally tough enamel human teeth
are just as strong
according to dr. Matthias Appel the lead
research professor it's the special
micro and nano structure of our teeth
that provides them with the same power
so chew on that for a while number seven
the color of your dreams can depend on
the type of television you watch now if
the usual color palette of your dream
seems kind of odd to you don't worry it
can't be connected to the type of
television you used to watch when you
were a child a study carried out by Ava
Merson a psychology student from Dundee
University showed that almost all people
under 25 dream in color people over 55
who used to watch black-and-white
television when they were babies often
still have monochrome dreams that means
black and white apparently television
has a way bigger impact on us than we
ever thought hey I still dream about
commercials like I'm cuckoo for cocoa
puffs boy how do you get that one
unstuck number eight your muscles are
designed to lift tons just like the rest
of your body your muscles are capable of
so much more than you know back in 1982
Angela Cavallo lifted a 1964 Chevrolet
Impala in
lawrenceville the amazing story goes
that the car fell off the jacks that
held it up while her son Tony was
working underneath it painting him down
mrs. Cavallo kept her wits about her and
lifted the car high enough and long
enough for two neighbors to replace the
jacks and pole poor Tony from beneath
the car and this is not the only case of
someone doing the seemingly impossible
during an adrenaline rush after all we
have 640 muscles inside our body and
they're real limits remain unknown hey
wanna see me lift this burrito number
nine your body glows it seems like our
bodies themselves know how fabulous they
are because they totally glow a study
from the department of electronics and
intelligent systems of Tohoku Institute
of Technology in Japan Wow does that
whole thing fit on a sign hey it showed
us that our body literally glimmers
scientists asked five perfectly healthy
twenty-something male volunteers to
appear bare-chested in front of
sensitive cameras that can detect single
protons the results showed that the
human body glows all day long with its
peak at 4 p.m. and its lowest point at
10:00 a.m. of course the intensity of
this glow is about 1,000 times lower
than the sensitivity of our eyes and we
can't see it the specialist suggests
that it's connected to our metabolic
rhythms as this glow rises and decreases
throughout the day so the next time
someone wakes you and tells you to rise
and shine go ahead and make their day
[Music]
number 10 you were super strong when you
were a baby newborn babies are not only
incredibly adorable but also very strong
for their size and weight for example if
a baby grasped a horizontal bar it would
hang there
for a long time without getting tired
this strange palmar grasp reflex is
inherited from our ancestors newborn
monkeys had to hold on to their mothers
grasping their hair unfortunately
nothing is eternal at the age of three
months we lose this mind-blowing ability
for good number 11 the liquid that runs
out of your nose can be from your brain
if you constantly have a runny nose and
experienced headaches your problem could
be way more serious than a casual cold
or allergies the liquid leaking from
your nose can actually be brain fluid
this fluid is located around your brain
and held in by a special membrane it can
sometimes leak through your nose in
small quantities as a clear liquid and
that's completely fine but if medication
doesn't help and your nose keeps
dripping the situation may be out of
control this can be the first sign of a
cerebrospinal fluid leak which needs
medical attention if you have any
similar concerns about your health
contact your doctor right away to get a
checked number 12 your body is the most
protected construction in the world our
body's protection mechanisms are truly
outstanding the white blood cells are
the unofficial men in black of our body
chasing overtaking and basically
devouring evil bacteria there's the
regular removal of old and littered
cells that your body knows are no good
for you even right now as you're
watching this video
22 million such cells are dying moreover
in the following 30 seconds your body
will produce 72 million new red blood
cells and will get rid of 174,000 old
skin cells Wow your body really is a
mysterious and beautiful system that
needs your care and attention so do you
know any other fascinating facts about
the human body
in the comment section below don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
stay with us on the bright side